In this video, we are going to go ahead
and tackle Listing Vets on the Vet
Index Page, so issue #15. It's
going to be pretty similar to what we
just did with Owners. I'm going to toggle over
to IntelliJ now. We're going to bring
up the VetController. What we want
to do is add in a property for the
VetService.
We're going to put in by the
interface and then add in a Constructor
to go ahead and add in that parameter
then Spring will go ahead and Auto
wire that for us. Next thing we want to
do is bring in the Model into the
Controller, or I should say the
Controller method. On the Model, we're
going to add a new attribute for vets. Let's
go and take a look at the Vet object
itself. Bring that up. We can see
that Vet extends out the Person object.
It just has a firstName, lastName,
and also extends BaseEntity, which gives
us the id value. Now what we want to do
is add in a property model attribute
called vets. We're going to ask for a
list of Vets from our Vet Service.
This will append in a set of Vet, so
through the findAll method, remember that
it returns a set of Vets and that's going
to add that into the Model that is
returned back to the Thymeleaf template.
Now let's go ahead and edit the template.
I am going to cut and paste because this
is really similar to what we did to
Owners. I'm going to grab that table right out of
new Owners. I'm going to paste it into
the Vets and modify this. Rather than
Owners, we have the attribute called vets.
I do vets and each vet and then
update the template to use the vet
properties rather than owners. Don't
cut and paste at home. You can
definitely get yourself in trouble, so
I'm doing you what you should not be
doing.
I'm going to bring over the comment as
well. This is just a hint. This
comment that I'm adding in is strictly
for IntelliJ. This helps IntelliJ
understand the type for vet so now
IntelliJ intellisense will work. It
will actually know that that vet
variable of the type Vet, so
that's just a little hint for IntelliJ
intellisense. It really doesn't affect how
Thymeleaf functions at all.
Now let's go ahead and
run this. We're going to bring it up in
Spring Boot, start it up.
You can see Spring Boot is initialising
there. We are going to be up and
running on port 8080. Now I'm going to
toggle over to Chrome. Let's go ahead
and take a look at our vets. Switch to the
url to vets.
Verify that we do get a List of Vets.
You can see that I only have one Vet
being listed and I should have two. Let's
go and take a look at that. Take a look
at the bootstrap loader. I can see
the problem right away as the evils of
cut and paste. Not sure if you see it yet.
But I did a cut and paste here and I got
caught. That's why you should never
cut and paste because it can cause you
problems. Like here I had vet1 where
should have been vet2. That is
definitely an error that was introduced
by cut and paste. Let's go ahead and
restart Spring Boot. Verify that
our data does load up properly.
It's initialising there.
Let's toggle on over. take a look at
this in Chrome.
I'm going to refresh the page, and now we can
see that I do in fact have two Vets
listed here.
Let's just go ahead and recap what
happened here. Just to reiterate there, I
had a problem. I did a cut and paste
here. You can see there on line 55
that it previously was vet1, so I was
saving that vet1 twice to the Map
so that was why it skipped giving us
there. Just to recap everything that we
did here, we went in and added in the VetService
and also added that in as a
constructor property, so the VetService
gets wired up, and then on line 22 there,
we are bringing in the Model.
Spring MVC will inject the Model.
We're going to add in the attribute of vets
We're going to request that from the
implementation of the VetService that
is injected into our controller,
so our Model now have a property called
vets, that Thymeleaf we used to
iterate over.
Let's go ahead and take a look at the
the template. You can see that I brought
over a table. Then, there on line 21,
we are setting up an iterator in
Thymeleaf to iterate over the vets property.
For each vet found in vet, we are
going to output a table row for the
Thymeleaf template. That is what
produces the table here in Thymeleaf, or
I should say, HTML Thymeleaf produces the
HTML that we are seeing in the browser.
Go over and close issue #15. I'll
go ahead and commit this into GitHub.
Commit the directory. I'm going to update
the comment for Vets list and then we
will say that we are closing issue
#15. I'm going to go ahead and Commit and
Push that. That push action is going
to go ahead and close it in GitHub
automatically. We'll see there how
to automatically change to close there
for us.